God gave our first parents the food He designed that the race should eat.. 
There was to be no death in Eden. The fruit of
the trees in the garden, was the food man’s wants required...
 God gave man no permission to eat animal food until after the flood.Everything had been destroyed upon which man could subsist, and
therefore the Lord in their necessity gave Noah permission to eat
of the clean animals which he had taken with him into the ark. But
animal food was not the most healthful article of food for man.

When the Lord led the children of Israel from Egypt, He pur-

posed to establish them in Canaan a pure, happy, healthy people.
Let us study the plan of God, and see how this was accomplished.
He restricted their diet. To a large degree, He took flesh food from
them. But they hankered after the fleshpots of Egypt, and God gave
them flesh, and with it the sure result. He removed flesh food from
them in a great measure. He had granted them flesh in answer to
their clamors, just before reaching Sinai, but it was furnished for
only one day. God might have provided flesh as easily as manna,
but a restriction was placed upon the people for their good. It was
His purpose to supply them with food better suited to their wants
than the feverish diet to which many of them had been accustomed
in Egypt. The perverted appetite was to be brought into a more
healthy state, that they might enjoy the food originally provided for
man,—the fruits of the earth, which God gave to Adam and Eve in
Eden.

Upon their settlement in Canaan, the Israelites were permitted
the use of animal food, but under careful restrictions, which tended
to lessen the evil results. 

Worldly physicians cannot account for the rapid increase
of disease among the human family. But we know that much of this
suffering is caused by the eating of dead flesh.—Letter 83, 1901

 Cancers, tumors, and pulmonary diseases are largely caused by meat eating.—Pacific Union Recorder,
October 9, 1902

We are built up from that which we eat. Shall we strengthen the
animal passions by eating animal food? In the place of educating the
taste to love this gross diet, it is high time that we were educating
ourselves to subsist upon fruits, grains, and vegetables.

In grains, fruit, vegetables, and nuts are to be found all
the food elements that we need. If we will come to the Lord in
simplicity of mind, He will teach us how to prepare wholesome food
free from the taint of flesh meat.—



Again I will refer to the diet question. We cannot now do as
we have ventured to do in the past in regard to meat eating. It
has always been a curse to the human family, but now it is made
particularly so in the curse which God has pronounced upon the
herds of the field, because of man’s transgression and sin. The
disease upon animals is becoming more and more common, and
our only safety now is in leaving meat entirely alone. The most
aggravated diseases are now prevalent, and the very last thing that
physicians who are enlightened should do, is to advise patients to
eat meat. It is in eating meat so largely in this country that men
and women are becoming demoralized, their blood corrupted, and
disease planted in the system. Because of meat eating, many die, and
they do not understand the cause. If the truth were known, it would
bear testimony it was the flesh of animals that have passed through
death. The thought of feeding on dead flesh is repulsive, but there is
Flesh Meats (Proteins Continued)
 331
something besides this. In eating meat we partake of diseased dead
flesh, and this sows its seed of corruption in the human organism.
I write to you, my brother, that the giving of prescriptions for
the eating of the flesh of animals shall no more be practiced in our
sanitarium. There is no excuse for this. There is no safety in the
after influence and results upon the human mind. Let us be health
reformers in every sense of the term. Let us make known in our
institutions that there is no longer a meat table, even for the boarders;
and then the education given upon the discarding of a meat diet will
be not only saying but doing. If patronage is less, so let it be. The
principles will be of far greater value when they are understood,
when it is known that the life of no living thing shall be taken to
sustain the life of the Christian.—Letter 59, 1898

The light given me was that meat in a healthy
condition was not to be cut off all at once, but talks were to be given
in the parlor in regard to the use of dead flesh of any kind; that
fruits, grains, and vegetables, properly prepared, were all the system
required to keep it in health; but that they must first show that we
have no need to use meat, where there was an abundance of fruit,
as in California. But at the Health Retreat they were not prepared
to make abrupt moves, after using meat so abundantly as they had
done. It would be necessary for them to use meat very sparingly at
first and finally discontinue it entirely. But there must be only one
table called the patients’ meat-eating table. The other tables were to
be free from this article....

But would it be right for us, for the sake of obtaining
more patients, to return to the serving of flesh meat? Shall we give
the sick that which has made them sick, that which will keep them
sick if they continue to use it as food? Shall we not rather take our
stand as those who are resolved to carry out the principles of health
reform?—Manuscript 3a, 1903
