God gave our first parents the food He designed that the race should eat.. 
There was to be no death in Eden. The fruit of
the trees in the garden, was the food man’s wants required...
 God gave man no permission to eat animal food until after the flood.Everything had been destroyed upon which man could subsist, and
therefore the Lord in their necessity gave Noah permission to eat
of the clean animals which he had taken with him into the ark. But
animal food was not the most healthful article of food for man.

When the Lord led the children of Israel from Egypt, He pur-

posed to establish them in Canaan a pure, happy, healthy people.
Let us study the plan of God, and see how this was accomplished.
He restricted their diet. To a large degree, He took flesh food from
them. But they hankered after the fleshpots of Egypt, and God gave
them flesh, and with it the sure result. He removed flesh food from
them in a great measure. He had granted them flesh in answer to
their clamors, just before reaching Sinai, but it was furnished for
only one day. God might have provided flesh as easily as manna,
but a restriction was placed upon the people for their good. It was
His purpose to supply them with food better suited to their wants
than the feverish diet to which many of them had been accustomed
in Egypt. The perverted appetite was to be brought into a more
healthy state, that they might enjoy the food originally provided for
man,—the fruits of the earth, which God gave to Adam and Eve in
Eden.

Upon their settlement in Canaan, the Israelites were permitted
the use of animal food, but under careful restrictions, which tended
to lessen the evil results. 

Worldly physicians cannot account for the rapid increase
of disease among the human family. But we know that much of this
suffering is caused by the eating of dead flesh.—Letter 83, 1901

 Cancers, tumors, and pulmonary diseases are largely caused by meat eating.—Pacific Union Recorder,
October 9, 1902

We are built up from that which we eat. Shall we strengthen the
animal passions by eating animal food? In the place of educating the
taste to love this gross diet, it is high time that we were educating
ourselves to subsist upon fruits, grains, and vegetables.



